8-29
today we did a few challenges to review tracing algorithms, describing hardware, 
and did a fun game involving a bit of a scavenger hunt at the KAC computer.
I realized there are many different ways to approach problems, and that
Computer Science gives us a lot of interesting tools for approaching problem solving.

8-30 
today we learned some basic comands to use in the terminal, including ls (list) cp (copy) and others.
we also did a short activity that involved creating, moving, and editing files in different directories. 
I learned that the terminal is a useful tool in understanding and operating a computer,
and allows one to view information stored on the computer more as data packages rather than apps or programs to run.


9-5
today we learned about different network topologies, types of networks, and IP addresses. 
we also practiced programming remotely via terminal to a raspberry pi using the commands we learned previously. 
this provided an example application of the networking concepts we learned as well as practicing our terminal 
command knowledge.

9-6
today we continued learning about different levels of networking, and practiced building webpages on raspberry pis.
I feel I still have more to learn about how data is shared remotely over networks, but I do understand the basics.

9-10
today we learned how to turn a raspberry pi into a vpn server, i know how vpns improve security and the simple commands needed to
create one on a rpi. in general i dont think this is the most useful thing though, since it can still be linked to a location
near your computer, and it can be difficult to successfully connect to.


9-12
today we continued working with a raspberry pi vpn, trying to connect our devices to the network. it was unsuccessful.
this was confusing because there were no apparent errors, it just refused to connect. hopefully we can explain ourselves
adequately next class.

9-13
we presented what we learned from working with VPN RPi. I still don't quite understand the utility of using a RPi as a VPN
without other filters, since the RPi will still point to your location if you are nearby. But I guess it is more of a start
to understanding the logic behind VPNs. I also discussed my IA with Dr. P and have a good plan going forward. 
I will be using a text-based rather than graphic-based display for the animal creation processes, so the app
will rely heavily on databases. I will create the appropriate flow charts and UML diagrams in the next three weeks, after
which point I can begin coding. 

9-19
I found the class today extremely confusing. I struggled to construct a flow chart outlining the encryption process we
discussed last class. while I understood the logic of the different loops, I was unsure of how to best represent them in a
flow chart, as I am more comfortable in pseudocode. I was further confused when we started coding the encryption program
through pug and css, as I am unfamiliar with those languages. At the end of the class, Dr. P did confirm that if we were
more comfortable, we could code in java instead, and I sort of wished that this had been expressed earlier, as it would have
saved me a lot of struggling. I still don't understand what the webstorm environment does, and how CSS and pug connect to oop,
though Dr. P did say that his intention was to teach us a modern programming language and show us a modern environment. While 
I appreciate that this is valuable as knowledge of computer science in the practical world, it confused me because I could not
connect it with what I already knew, that being Java. 

We also practiced answering questions with different command terms, which I found helpful,
but I was again confused when I came upon a question about the different types of wireless network, because I thought that
the IB curriculum focused on connections like PAN, LAN, etc. but Dr. P suggested I write about 4G/5G/LTE and other mobile
connection technologies. I don't know anything about these connections, so my answer to the question was based mostly on
quick research I did in class. If we are expected to know this information for the IB exma, I would like to go over it more
in depth. I wish that we could spend more time connecting these paper 1 topics to OOP and java, since that is what I and all
of the other students have spent the most time on in class, and we have all selected the OOP option for Paper 2. 

Besides that, I am continuing to work on my IA. I am unsure if it is best to use the conventions that Dr. P showed me, 
which I believe are standard for programming flowcharts, or to use the conventions outlined in the IB CS curriculum, 
which are heavily simplified. I will continue to do research on this, but for the moment I believe it would be best to stick
to what the curriculum recommends, since at this point in the year I am more focused on scoring well on the exam than
learning all that there is to learn about computer science. 

I will continue to work hard in this subject and in class, and hopefully my confusion will be clarified in the future. 


9/26
I worked on my IA and am still pretty confused. I'm following a few example projects online, but I am not sure how having
more than one screen view will affect it, because the examples only have one view. 


9-27

Oh my gosh, I am SO HAPPY! I finally am making headway on my IA app. Last class I was doing research and still feeling confused,
but now that I understand how to attach certain tasks to different buttons and I know how the ViewControl works, I think
I will make much faster progress. I am currently working on saving the data on whether or not the user has eaten different
types of meat, and after that I will work on saving that information in one of two databases. The other one will keep track
of how many animals exist in the farm, but that will be based on the info from the first database, I think. I still have a lot
to do, but I feel much more comfortable and confident!

10-3
Today we had a test on networks, one which I felt somewhat prepared for but still had a bit of trouble with. I always
struggle with the IB phrasing of questions, even though the markschemes make it look simple. Afterwards I continued work on my
IA. I have figured out how to create a database table, but am now working on creating one with defaults which I can edit
rather than a table that collects new entries. 

10-4
I have stumbled upon another issue with my IA. While I think I have successfully created a data table with initial values, 
I am having trouble updating those values. what I want to do is just have a function that runs when the user clicks "save data"
which makes each number of days go up by one if the switch is false, and then increases the number of animals if another 
condition is met. One tutorial I followed used something called SQLite.setter, but that doesn't work for me, and when I try
to initialize my own setters/getters for all the variables, it doesn't work either. I am hoping to get some help on this from
one of my classmates, or find a better tutorial. 











